{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids.   Introduction to Macromolecules So far, we have discussed the major elements and functional groups that are important in the functioning of a cell. Together these elements and functional groups define the major properties of the four classes of macromolecules that make up a cell: carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and nucleic acids. In this module, we will explore two of these classes: carbohydrates and proteins. Carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids are all examples of polymers. These polymers are very large molecules composed of smaller units joined by covalent bonds using a common set of chemical reactions. Proteins are linear polymers of amino acids all joined by peptide bonds. Polysaccharides are the carbohydrates joined through glycosidic bonds in sometimes quite complex branched structures. Later in the course you will encounter DNA and RNA which are polymers of nucleic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds. This unit includes a discussion of the structures of polymers of carbohydrates and of amino acids. \
\
\
\

\b Keywords Associated: ['protein', 'acids\'92, \'91pH\'92]}