{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Previously, you explored how proteins interact with their ligands, using the example of myoglobin and oxygen. Proteins are not only storage proteins, but can also act as hormone receptors as seen with the estrogen receptor and many serve as enzymes that catalyze processes in the cell. Catalyst A catalyst is a participant in a chemical reaction that speeds up the reaction but is not consumed itself. Enzymes are biological catalysts that mediate the conversion of substrate to product, by lowering the activation energy of the reaction. Enzymes re not consumed or modified during the process. Enzymes are generally made of proteins but nucleic acid enzymes, ribozymes, have also been discovered. General Reaction Cells operate within the laws of chemistry and physics, and utilize only chemical reactions that occur naturally. Many of these reactions are extremely slow, requiring years to eons to complete. For example, your favorite book contains paper made of cellulose from trees. This paper will take decades to degrade in the environment and mammalian systems lack the enzyme that is specific to degrade cellulose, however, a bacteria found in the stomach of cows and other ruminants have the ability to digest cellulose and provide glucose to the cow. For a cow to survive it cannot wait decades to digest a meal of hay. To meet the speed of life, chemical reactions in cells are sped up by enzyme catalysts. Enzymes bind to substrates in a manner similar to the way myoglobin binds oxygen or the estradiol binds to the estrogen receptor, but enzymes can go one step further. In this case the ligand is specifically referred to as the substrate (the molecule that the enzyme will convert to product) and it binds to a specific binding region of the enzyme referred to as the active site. Once bound, the ligand, or substrate, can either simply reversibly come off the enzyme, or it can be converted into a new compound or product. The general form of the reaction is: E + S <=> [ES] -> P + E Where E = enzyme, S = substrate, ES = the enzyme\'95substrate complex, and P = product. The square brackets around the ES complex indicate that the complex is inferred, because it is very unstable and generally not directly measurable. Catalysts Lower Activation Energy Enzymes and other catalysts lower the activation energy for converting a specific substrate to product, as shown in the graph below. The activation energy is the energy required for a chemical reaction to proceed to product. By lowering the activation energy, a chemical reaction can proceed much more quickly. Note that enzymes have no effect on the free energy of the reaction. Enzymes are not consumed in the process, but are recycled for further catalysis.\
\

\b Keywords Associated: [\'91enzyme', 'enzymes\'92]}