{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Atoms are made up of subatomic particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons. Protons and neutrons are at the center of the atom and have a mass of 1 atomic mass unit (a.m.u) each. Each proton has a positive charge (+1), while neutrons are neutral (they carry no charge). Each electron has a negative charge (-1) and zero mass. Two atoms that differ by the number of neutrons are called isotopes of the same element (e.g. radioactive isotope of iodine is used for cancer treatment). These elements represent over 95% of the mass of a cell. Carbon is a major component of nearly all biological molecules. Elements are characterized by their atomic structure. While the subatomic structure of the atom is a major topic of interest in chemistry, physics and biophysics, the basic structure described below provides sufficient information for the construction of molecules in the context of this course. Atomic mass, the sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the atomic structure, is a particularly useful measure of each element. By summing the atomic mass of all the atoms in a molecule, one can estimate the molecular mass of the molecule, which is then expressed in atomic mass units or Daltons.\
\
\

\b Keywords Associated: [molecule', 'molecules\'92, \'91atoms\'92]}